Improve Basic authentication how-to (#54725)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/security-basic-authentication-howto.adoc

:diataxis-type: howto
:categories: security
:topics: security,authentication,basic-authentication,http
:extensions: io.quarkus:quarkus-vertx-http,io.quarkus:quarkus-security-jpa,io.quarkus:quarkus-security-jpa-reactive,io.quarkus:quarkus-elytron-security-properties-file,io.quarkus:quarkus-elytron-security-jdbc,io.quarkus:quarkus-elytron-security-ldap

Enable Basic authentication to require a username and password before users can access your Quarkus application.

> For more about the mechanism, see xref:security-basic-authentication.adoc[Basic authentication].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about Basic authentication in Quarkus, see the xref:security-basic-authentication.adoc[Basic authentication] reference document.
```

Something like that, as `mechanism` is a rather technical term for a how to

:diataxis-type: howto
:categories: security
:topics: security,authentication,basic-authentication,http
:extensions: io.quarkus:quarkus-vertx-http,io.quarkus:quarkus-security-jpa,io.quarkus:quarkus-security-jpa-reactive,io.quarkus:quarkus-elytron-security-properties-file,io.quarkus:quarkus-elytron-security-jdbc,io.quarkus:quarkus-elytron-security-ldap

> Enable Basic authentication to require a username and password before users can access your Quarkus application. Configure an identity provider to store and verify credentials, then activate the Basic authentication mechanism built into Quarkus HTTP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable Basic authentication to require a username and password before users can access your Quarkus application.
```

It looks quite technical to me at the start of the how to doc

Author: Applied your suggestion verbatim. The intro is now that single sentence, and the mechanism detail stays available through the `Basic authentication` link just below it.

For more about the mechanism, see xref:security-basic-authentication.adoc[Basic authentication].

> For a production application, store credentials in a database through an identity provider.

Reviewer: I don't think this has to be brought up immediately at the top of the doc - this is clearly explained below

Author: Removed those sentences from the top. The production identity provider guidance now appears only in the procedure step below, where the reader configures it.

quarkus.security.users.embedded.roles.alice=admin
quarkus.security.users.embedded.roles.bob=user
----
where:

* The user, `alice`, has `alice` as their password and `admin` as their role.
* The user, `bob`, has `bob` as their password and `user` as their role.

== Verification

. Start your application.

. Send a request to a secured endpoint _without_ credentials and confirm that the application returns a `401 Unauthorized` response:
+
[source,shell]
----
$ curl -i -X GET http://localhost:8080/<your_secured_endpoint>

HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
WWW-Authenticate: Basic
----

. Send the same request _with_ a valid username and password and confirm that the application returns a `200 OK` response:
+
[source,shell]
----
$ curl -i -X GET -u <username>:<password> http://localhost:8080/<your_secured_endpoint>

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
----

== Next steps

For a more detailed walk-through that shows you how to configure Basic authentication together with Jakarta Persistence for storing user credentials in a database, see the xref:security-getting-started-tutorial.adoc[Getting started with Security by using Basic authentication and Jakarta Persistence] guide.

> == Additional resources

Reviewer: We use References everywhere, not sure why we need to change it now

Author: Reverted the heading back to `== References`.
